Hi everybody.
I think they were running a
little bit late next door.
Hopefully you guys made it
over from the other session.
So let's see if I can
get this thing going.
Okay, that's me.
So here's the block diagram
you've all seen probably many more
times than you need to right now.
But what we're going to be focusing
on here is the graphics layer.
And what I'm going to be doing in
this session is really bringing
you through an overview of all the
various technologies we have on
OS X in the graphics layers for you
to use in your applications from 2D,
3D, multimedia.
Then I'm going to show you a
few demos on the system here.
And then, as Travis said,
have a pretty extensive pointers
to other sessions throughout
the week that I highly recommend
you go to if you're interested,
particularly in graphics.
So again, the bubble bullets for
the graphics layers,
we have Quartz for 2D, OpenGL for 3D,
and QuickTime for multimedia and video.
Now, what we did when we came up
with Mac OS X was want to take
the best technologies in each
of these areas and adopt them,
and not necessarily reinvent
the wheel or come up with new
and different technologies.
So you can see what we've done as I go
through the presentation is really look
for best practices in the industry and
employ those in OS X as building blocks
for you guys to do your applications.
So let's start with Quartz.
Some of these slides you may
have seen before in the keynote.
If any of you work at big companies,
you know how this works,
but I did them first.
So anyway,
PostScript and PDF are really the
industry standard 2D imaging model.
And if you think about it,
it's pretty amazing.
Basically,
all the pages that you've probably
seen in publications over the last 10,
20 years since the basic underpinnings
of PostScript were figured out
can be described in this language.
And it's really evolved only very
little over time to add things
like device-independent color,
other font formats, and things like that.
So it's really a credit to the
designers of this imaging model that
it's withstood the test of time.
It's even gone through a language change.
I mean, it started out as being bound to,
you know, very much Java-like VM-oriented
environment with the PostScript language
interpreter into a file format like PDF,
which is just declarative.
And then as we have with Quartz,
we'll be showing you
just the 2DC library,
which implements the same imaging model.
[Transcript missing]
The other thing for Quartz 2D is
we have very fast anti-aliasing.
One of the major motivations for building
Quartz was the user interface and some of
the ideas that we wanted to do with Aqua.
And we knew it had to be very
fast and very high quality.
And so Quartz,
we spent a lot of time on the
anti-aliasing algorithms and it's really
subpixel accurate in terms of text
positioning and fixed point subpixel
coordinates and exact coverage per pixel.
So it's pretty sophisticated
what's going on there.
Then we have Apple type technology
that Apple actually already had so we
didn't need to rebuild anything here.
Apple has a pretty extensive
type machinery called the
Apple Type System and it supports
TrueType as well as Type 1
and other pluggable font formats.
And that we just built
right in to Quartz.
And Quartz calls the
Apple Type Solution whenever it
has to do any character handling.
And in fact that piece of code can stream
out data when we need to embed a font.
We just tell them, "Hey,
we used these three glyphs from
this font." And the type system
will subset the glyphs and stream
this out in a format that we can
just stick right into the PDF file.
So it's a really good way to
get a lot of value out of these
technologies that we had at Apple that
were really good at doing that.
That had been around
before we even did Quartz.
On the Type 1 Scaler I mentioned,
we do have Type 1 built in.
In fact we worked with Adobe on
getting the Type 1 Scaler.
So in terms of ATM, you don't really need
ATM as a rasterizer.
I mean there's font management
things in ATM as a product.
But in terms of the original
reason why ATM existed,
which is to bring Type 1
support to the Mac,
we've cleaned that up with OS X and it's
now just built in as a standard format.
No extra software required.
ColorSync is another technology
we had at Apple and used
primarily in high-end workflows.
And it's a great API for wiring
together transformations on colors
and sending image data through it.
And so we just use that
directly in Quartz 2D without
necessarily writing any code.
If we're asked to draw an
LAB image rotated 45 degrees,
we'll set up the color worlds behind
your back and match appropriately
through the color worlds to the screen
or however you've set up the destination
profile for your rendering context.
There's going to be a lot of talk
about how this exactly works,
the matching between the ColorSync
implementation in Quartz 2D and the
PDF model versus the straight ICC model,
which is in ColorSync.
And in the ColorSync talk they're
going to explicitly talk about
ColorSync and Quartz working together.
So if you're interested in that topic,
that's a good thing.
session.
The other thing we did,
as you've no doubt heard,
is we've bundled a bunch of fonts,
about 50 megabytes worth of fonts.
They're both decorative and classic
designs as far as Roman typefaces go.
And for Japanese,
we've got six really high
quality Japanese fonts.
These fonts range, again,
from kind of more classic
designs to more modern designs.
But additionally,
they come with a huge amount of glyphs.
I think it's something like 12,000
glyphs in each of these fonts.
So it's a really complete font.
And what's more,
there's no resolution limit or
embedding limit in terms of what
you can do with these fonts on OS X.
And that's something that's, I think,
sort of been holding back desktop
publishing a little bit in the
Japanese market because it's very
expensive to have high quality fonts
and the outlines are very pretentious.
And I think that's something
that's been protected.
And if any of you have dealt with,
you know,
laser writers with these kind of fonts,
you know what I'm talking about.
But these fonts are,
there's no such limitation or no copy
protection or anything like that.
And together with our streaming we
get out of the Apple type software,
what we're able to do is embed only
the glyphs necessary from the fonts
that are shown into the PDF file.
So that PDF file can travel anywhere,
any platform, and still have those great
fonts embedded in it.
So let me show off
some of the fonts here.
So we have Baskerville, a bunch of sizes.
You'll notice it's not just the
regular italic bold kind of set.
We've actually got some of the semi-bold
and intermediate weights like that.
So obviously much more expressive
than QuickDraw style bits.
We've got regular bold
light and condensed,
various flavors of American typewriter,
which is a nice fixed advanced font.
Some of the classic faces here: Kaslan,
Dedo, Copperplate.
Some more decorative faces.
We've got Markerfelt,
which is kind of a nice
kind of presentation font.
Zapfino,
which is a font designed by Herman Zapf,
the font designer,
in the spirit of his own calligraphy,
his own handwriting.
And that's really beautiful font,
and I'll actually show that
interactive during the demo.
Optima.
Optima is a great font.
It's been around for a while.
One of the things that is great about
Optima on OS X is the anti-aliasing
really brings through some of the
subtle characteristics of this font.
For example, the B in bold has a very
slight bow on the curve.
And to really represent that
faithfully requires pretty
sophisticated anti-aliasing and
more than 16 levels of gray,
as some approaches do.
It really benefits from
the real sophisticated
anti-aliasing approach we take.
And a normal hinting renderer
would flatten that thing away
the first time it's sawed.
So it's great to be able to preserve some
of the subtle details of the typefaces.
And then here are the Japanese fonts.
As I said, I hope I'm not offending
anyone with this.
I don't speak Japanese,
but I'm told it says
this is a beautiful font.
I trust them on that.
But you can see we have some
of the modern faces and the
more classic serif faces,
too, at the bottom.
[Transcript missing]
So that's about it for Quartz.
Let me briefly show you
some slides on OpenGL.
Some of these may look familiar.
So OpenGL is industry
standard 3D technology.
It's been around for, I don't know,
15 years or so.
It started life as the GL graphics
library on SGI machines.
I think early 90s became a standard.
It's been through about two
or three revisions as OpenGL.
And it's very much a vibrant standard.
There's all kinds of extensions
being proposed very frequently.
It's got a very clean model
of how to add functionality,
how to probe for functionality,
to be able to take advantage
of specific card features.
And it's a real nice programming model.
And a lot of our game developers
have used it to develop
some great games over time.
It's a picture from Star Trek.
And if you go down... On the show floor,
you see the games all running on OS X.
It's really pretty amazing.
I don't know.
Its calculation is probably off,
but not by an order of magnitude.
But I figured there's got to be something
about like 100 gigaflops on that table of
Quake games that people are playing at.
I don't know if anyone has
a better number shouted out.
But you figure you've got
GeForce CPUs in there,
and you've got NV11,
NVIDIA's GeForce 2 cards in there.
I think it's... I think
it's... It's a pretty stunning
supercomputer display there.
But OpenGL is really not just for games.
Again,
you may have seen the slide before.
It's also for a lot of applications
that kind of grew up around GL and
UNIX and environments like that,
which are prevalent in
the high-end modeling,
animation, scientific engineering world.
Maya is a great example
of such an application.
And we're really excited.
And working very closely with
the Maya guys to get their port
for OS X working really well.
But there's a whole stream
of other developers who are
kind of in this camp as well,
and hopefully some of you out there,
who come from this heritage of
high-end workstation graphics
with either custom vertical
solutions or even broad solutions.
So we're really excited to be working
with any of you developers out there.
We have a great OpenGL team
and great developer support.
So get involved with Apple.
If you or you know someone who's
got a great solution to bring
to the platform now that we have
UNIX and OpenGL all working together.
The architecture on OS X for
graphics acceleration,
we have spent a lot of time
making sure that the graphics
acceleration architecture on
X aggressively virtualizes the
resources of the graphics cards.
So if you're playing a full screen game,
for example,
essentially every byte of video
memory can be owned by that game.
When you're running in
a windowed environment,
the video memory is obviously shared
and arbitrated among the applications,
but none of them have to explicitly get
in the game of managing their memory.
So really it's almost sort of a
VM system that works in the video memory.
Of course, there aren't page tables,
so the analogy is not
completely accurate,
but it really,
we did take our role as an OS vendor
very seriously when we looked at how
to support 3D graphics acceleration
and it's really a nice architecture.
So we're really happy to have great
drivers for both NVIDIA and ATI cards
out there and work with you on
any additional cards if you're
at one of the other graphics houses.
QuickTime.
Just a few slides on QuickTime.
Mac OS X comes with QuickTime 5.
There's a few new features in
QuickTime that are important.
Actually, first,
let me back up and just mention
on this slide my comment
about QuickTime's longevity.
So, QuickTime has also been
around for a long time,
you know, early 90s or so.
And the amazing thing about
QuickTime is that it has really
survived the test of time.
I mean, the original architecture,
if you think back to early 90s,
based on the component manager
and pluggable codecs and
dynamic codec chain building,
all that stuff was really pretty
groundbreaking and I think has paid off
over the history of QuickTime because
the basic architecture is still the same.
The object orientation,
even though that was, you know,
pretty basic, but it's still the same.
You know, pre, you know, pre, you know,
heavy duty use of C++ and object
oriented and the component manager
was what they made it go with.
But it's really pretty amazing
that there's been such innovation
in video codec technology,
video streaming technology,
and the basic architecture
is still sound.
And so, you know,
I think it's a great thing to point out
about QuickTime and I don't always get
an opportunity to talk about QuickTime,
so I thought I would give that plug and
thanks to the team for... for caring
for that architecture over the years.
So the stuff that's in QuickTime 5
that's built in that's new,
there's a new user interface,
there's a Flash 4 codec, a Cubic VR,
which is actually pretty exciting
because the Cubic VR not only
lets you look up and down,
but it uses the six faces of
the cube and it's very amenable
to hardware acceleration.
And so you can,
a lot of the cards now are starting to
implement Cubic environment mapping.
So I think there are some very
interesting opportunities with Cubic
VR and OpenGL working together.
DLS Music Synthesizer,
you saw the demo of that earlier,
MPEG-1 streaming, the new DV codec,
which is much higher performance
and higher fidelity in terms
of getting DV to the screen,
very important for applications
like iMovie and editing apps
that you might be working on.
It also leverages the
sound architecture on OS X,
which... takes advantage of some
of the real low latency we're able
to get inside the kernel in OS X,
and additional tricks to really get the
sound performance pretty amazingly low
latency and high throughput on OS X.
I think games will take a lot
of advantage of that as well.
[Transcript missing]
So what we call this piece of
technology is the Quartz compositor.
It's really the windowing system.
Last year I think we called it
the lightweight windowing system.
But it's a client-server architecture.
It's responsible for presenting,
for all the final presentation blitz
that happen in the system in order
to mix the content onto the display.
And it works with the
acceleration layers of OpenGL,
QuickTime, and everything working
together to share the screen.
Some of the features of
the Quartz compositor:
Full double buffering.
Double buffering is important not only
from the standpoint of not needing to
wake up an app to redraw the display,
but also to have access to the
rendered content of any window
on the system at any time.
So we can fade it in, fade it out,
put a drop shadow over it, whatever.
Per pixel alpha channel:
important to have per pixel
control of the opacity of a window.
So that, for example,
in the menus the text is actually opaque,
but the rest of the menu is transparent.
And obviously Quartz 2D
plays a role in that too,
because you need a rendering
system that can understand how
to draw destination alpha into
the back buffer for the window.
When you draw with Quick Draw,
you can only get opaque pixels.
So, for another feature that we have is
an overall per-window fade control,
so that's one big opacity
knob on the whole window,
so that's used for fading in, fading out.
We have some per-window
transform and warp capabilities,
sheets, genie, dock animation,
those kind of things.
And the important thing is
that this really integrates
across whether you're doing 2D,
3D, video.
Certain things are
currently assumed opaque,
like an accelerated 3D surface.
Someday we'll get those transparent too.
But by and large,
the model holds together.
If the user picks up something
that's transparent and
drags it across the screen,
the illusion is not broken.
He can just slide it over every
piece of content on the display.
So I think with that,
I'm going to switch over
to the demo machine here.
Can I get them on one, please?
Yeah.
Great.
So let me just bring up a very
basic OpenGL application here
to get some pixels moving.
This is SkyFly,
which if you've played with
the developer CD at all,
this is on your CD as a
small application in OpenGL.
It's a simple terrain model
with a flying airplane.
I changed the code a little
bit to run in a window.
It runs full screen as
it comes out of the box,
but it's pretty straightforward.
So you can see the window
look of Aqua is very clean.
We've got drop shadows.
The window content goes all the
way to the edge of the windows.
That was really important to the
look they were after with Aqua.
And so to set off the windows,
all we really have is the drop shadow.
And so you can see what's
happening is the drop shadow is
actually dynamically compositing.
I mean,
it's not a very in-your-face effect,
but it carries the
illusion of the window.
It carries the illusion that even with
animated accelerated content underneath,
we can still set off that finder
window without having to just
chop the pixels with a hard
handoff between the accelerated
content and the finder window.
Again, down in the dock,
you can see if I drag...
The OpenGL window down
underneath the dock.
You can see the compositor kicking in
to do all the blending on the dock.
You can see that all the icons have
a high degree of anti-aliasing,
very high production value, if you will,
graphics.
So to really carry that anti-aliasing
above arbitrary content,
it's essential to have some
kind of compositing going
on in the windowing system.
Otherwise,
you're just going to hard clip it,
and it's not going to look right.
So my opinion is as soon as you go to
anti-aliased icons that are going to
be piece parts of the user experience,
you've got to do a composited
windowing system or it's just
not going to hold together.
Let me show you a little more in detail
with that with this Pixie application,
which is on the developer CD.
And I just have to configure it
here to refresh continuously.
This is a nice little tool.
You can use it for, you know,
sniffing at your pixels
and seeing what's going on.
But if I hold it down here,
You can see what's going on
in the display is actually,
you know, there's a lot of, you know,
like half-colored pixels in
order to get the side of the
Microsoft icon there working well.
And that's all getting composited on the
fly as the OpenGL application is playing.
And, you know,
obviously it's a lot of work for
us to do that and design a system
such that that could be possible.
But it's really important, you know,
to not break the illusion.
If you're going to present the user
with really nice anti-aliased icons,
you really don't want them falling
apart when they go over 3D content.
So, again, just another minor example,
if I go up there to the
corner of the window,
you can see the corners of the
window have little anti-aliasing
to make them look real crisp.
And you can see how the
accelerated content is
blitting through there as well.
[Transcript missing]
I'm ad-libbing a little bit
on my demos because some of
those were shown earlier too.
So here's a piece of PDF clip art.
This is actually just an
EPS file that we distilled.
And I just drag it into
a text editor here.
And I can add a text label to that,
make the font a little bigger.
So again,
for the purposes of drag and drop,
what we do is we do
live dragging of text,
which includes graphics.
So if a user wants to move
this to another application,
he's going to move it
over that 3D content,
and you really want everything
to just continue to work.
And you can see how the app is
still animating under there.
We lose a little bit of frame rate,
but the illusion holds together.
And the user just thinks he's dragging
this text clipping over a piece
of acetate over the whole screen.
And so it's important,
and it's kind of a theme, I guess,
from working at Apple,
is that you just want things
to appear as they should.
And it doesn't matter technically
how difficult they might be,
but you really want to sort of delight
the user with the interactivity and
the production values of the system.
So, that's enough of a compositor.
Let me show you,
actually while I have OpenGL going here,
this one does have a little bit of audio.
This is kind of a teaser for a
session that will be coming up,
I think it might be
tomorrow or Wednesday,
but we'll see in a second,
that shows how to combine some
of these technologies together.
So, for example, this is actually using
OpenGL and QuickTime together
to put a movie on a surface,
and I think Jeff's getting
some outrageous frame rate,
like 350 frames a second,
but there's probably not
that many frames of video,
but it's one of the Apple ads
that he's got there.
And you can see,
not only are each of these building
blocks that we have pretty compelling,
but you start to put them together,
and I think there's really... Some pretty
interesting opportunities here.
I'd like to start off with Liz,
Polyester Bride.
Liz Higgins Sure, for you.
So, I'll give you a pointer to that one,
when I talk about sessions later.
Let me bring up Internet Explorer here
and hit on a few things
about the printing pathway.
So I'm basically going to do the first
half of that demo where I showed you
the printing pathway recording to PDF.
So Internet Explorer is a
Carbon application drawing
its content with QuickDraw.
Here's news.com.
Let's see what's going on today.
Bring up the print panel.
Now this is a system-wide print panel,
so that's another advantage from OS X,
another difference from OS 9,
where the print UI, you didn't know what
you were going to get.
You made the call to
put up the print dialog,
and it was kind of up to
the driver from there.
We have standard print
dialogs that we bring up.
The drivers plug into them
and can add capabilities,
but it's no longer kind of a guessing
game in terms of what applications
are going to do with the print record.
We have got a nice property list where we
store all the information about the job.
So hopefully that will
make your lives easier,
particularly when QAing against a
whole bunch of different print drivers.
But I can hit preview here and that's
going to basically run the first
half of the printing process and
bring up in the preview application
here a PDF rendering of the page.
And it's basically the content
that the application drew through
QuickDraw calling Quartz 2D and
then saved out as a PDF file.
And if I were to actually print this,
then this exact PDF file would go
through the back end and get converted
to PostScript or Raster Bits or whatever.
And just to show you, it's real PDF,
so let me try dragging
it onto Acrobat here.
And there's Acrobat
showing the same file.
So anything we create can obviously be
read by Acrobat because it's just PDF.
A little bit more on the 2D.
Here's a text edit document that has
a bunch of different fonts in it.
These are the fonts that we ship.
These are all interactive.
Just scroll through some of
these so you can look at them.
There's Zepp Fino, Gil Sands,
I don't think I had that on the slide,
Helvetica Noy,
a bunch of faces of Helvetica.
If you can't find one in there you need,
I don't know.
Optima, let me show you.
Let me show you what I was talking
about with that B if I go on,
crank on the slider here.
Just to scale up that B,
you can see how those subtle curves
are in there in the font design,
and because of the anti-aliasing,
we can carry those features
down to very low point size.
Again, the Japanese fonts, let me pick,
oops, didn't mean to launch QuickTime.
[Transcript missing]
I could type in something even bigger.
But, you know, no resolution limit,
you know,
pretty dynamic interactive scaling.
So hopefully this will be a great thing
for not only Japanese users but everyone.
And, you know,
as was mentioned in the other sessions,
these fonts exist on every system,
every user system.
So, you know,
it might be likely if you're writing,
say, for example,
a mail application and someone
gets a message in Japanese,
they may actually be showing
Japanese content in your application.
So I think you also need to be
aware of those possibilities that
someone may be buying your app not
in that particular market but may
be dealing with language content.
From other places and whether
that means linguistically,
obviously you may not have all the
dictionaries and stuff necessary
to edit in that content but at
least to display and manipulate
letter forms and things like that.
I think that's a good
opportunity too for,
that help us share content worldwide.
Actually, before I kill that,
I wanted to show you
with Zapfino up here.
[Transcript missing]
So anyway, the usual thing to do,
of course, there's automatic tasks you
can set up to download images.
You can have them run in AppleScript,
which you saw the demo of.
You can also have,
the user can configure it to
run any application which can
handle a multiple open of images.
So, for example,
even if you're a word processor,
for example,
if you can accept an Apple event
to open a collection of images,
then the user could set up Image Capture
to call your application and maybe
you make a new document with those
images laid out or something like that.
So another thing to keep in mind,
very simple way that you can take
advantage of Image Capture in your code.
Now, there's going to be a whole session
on Image Capture where they'll go into
the API if you want to take a picture,
for example, or do camera-specific.
But there's a lot of opportunity here.
So let me go ahead and download
my Hawaii pictures here.
And by default, everything goes into the
pictures directory of the user,
but if you noticed on
the Image Capture panel,
there was a place where
I could set a different folder,
for example.
So those are my small selection
of my Hawaii pictures.
I only golfed one day,
but I spent a lot of it in the sand trap.
And then, of course,
all of our favorite application,
which is the slideshow,
which I'm going to talk about a
little bit while these images show up.
So what's going on here?
There's my lovely wife, Nancy.
Hi, Nancy.
When we started looking at what
was going on with graphics cards
and what you could do with OpenGL,
This is actually,
looks perhaps a lot easier than it is.
I mean, what's going on here is there's
about 6 megabytes worth of textures
that are getting crossfaded.
There's a front buffer and a back buffer.
And probably about 12 to 16 megabytes
worth of video memory to do this well.
We use less memory and downsampled
textures if we're on a lower config.
Probably about 2 gigabytes per
second of video memory bandwidth are
necessary to draw this much textures
with all this blending going on.
So, and of course there's all
other sorts of complications.
If you program with OpenGL,
there's a power of two texture limit,
so the textures have to
be diced or rescaled.
So there's a lot of, you know,
kind of trickiness to kind
of getting this going.
But the end result is, you know,
something people would expect.
I mean, you know,
my parents would love to
see these pictures of,
you know, us on our Hawaii vacation.
And this would be a great
way to show it to them.
So again, this is an example of,
you know,
kind of OpenGL not being just for games.
Obviously it's great for games,
but the innovation that's being driven so
hard there in terms of performance lets
you do some of these things in real time.
I mean, this is not at all a
scripted slideshow at all.
It's just reading the raw JPEGs.
It's picking a random place to zoom in.
It alternates between
zoom in and zoom out.
And it's all very dynamic.
In fact, it's great.
I run my PowerBook.
You can actually boot a
PowerBook with the lid closed.
I don't know if you know about this.
If you have an external keyboard,
you can boot it up.
And that way all the video memory on the
PowerBook will be used on the TV jack.
And you can run the screensaver on
your TV and put on some music and
entertain friends for days and days.
So...
Pretty cool.
But I wanted to give you some
insight into the technology
that's actually behind that.
And I think we're at a point now
in the evolution of graphic systems
where there is a lot of technology
that's untapped that we can try to tie
together some of these things that are
traditionally offline batch processes
and do them in real time for the user.
So that's...
Let me go back to the slides.
Okay, so I've gone through all of the
technology here that we've put for you
in Mac OS X from the API levels with 2D,
3D, QuickTime for video,
tying it all together
with the compositor,
and kind of putting back up
kind of the textbooks there.
Because an important point for us is
we really are trying to adopt best
practices in the industry and look at
what has worked before and deploy that
in an integrated fashion for all of
you to develop your applications on.
So that's really the extent of my slides.
What I've got for you next is a
bunch of pictures of the roadmap CD.
Hopefully the colors are the same.
I took them from the web.
And I'm going to kind of give
you my picks of sessions to
go to throughout the week.
So if you want to
follow along and circle,
you can.
Tomorrow, first thing in Hall J,
there's a session on PDF, Quartz,
and Mac OS X.
This is kind of an introductory session.
If you're not really familiar with
PDF and how is PDF different than
Acrobat and how we use it in OS X as a
graphics file format versus how tools
like Acrobat add much more data to it
to become more of a document format,
you should go to that session.
Then after that, in Hall A1,
which is this room,
there's going to be a session
called 2D Graphics Using Quartz,
which is going to be
down with the Quartz API,
looking at actual sample code and
how the Quartz 2D system is put
together in particular and what
the function calls look like.
Tomorrow afternoon, right after lunch,
there's going to be a
graphics for games session,
which is going to talk about
primarily how to use OpenGL for games.
OpenGL, we think, is a great solution
for not just 3D games,
but 2D sprite engines as well.
In fact, I'd be really interested in
hearing if anyone has a sprite
engine project they're working on,
because I think it would be really
a great way to bring that class of
apps to another level of performance.
After that, there's a session on drawing
Unicode text with Atsui.
So if you're a Carbon developer
and you want to really get into
the layout and the Unicode to glyph
processing that happens in the system,
that's the session you want to be at.
You can also learn how to draw
from Carbon apps using Atsui to
Quartz graphics context as well.
So if you're looking to get features
from Quartz and be a Carbon app,
that's one approach is to
go to that session there and
learn what they are offering.
Let's see, on Wednesday in the morning,
there's the QuickTime overview.
Just get the State of
the Union on QuickTime.
Later in the morning,
there's the QuickTime overview.
there's the Image Capture framework.
You'll hear about the tools they
have for if you want to write
an application to acquire images
or if you're a device vendor and
you want to play with the game,
how to get involved with Apple on that.
That's a good session to go to.
The ColorSync session at 2 o'clock
after lunch on Wednesday is going to
be a combination of just ColorSync
for those of you who are using it.
Those of you that are familiar with
ColorSync and also ColorSync and
Quartz working together and how that
whole integration works in OS X.
So that's a really interesting
session if you're interested in
color and some of the integration
work that's been going on in OS X.
Then in the big hall, 3:30, Wednesday,
is text on Mac OS X.
This talks at a slightly higher level
about all of the text facilities on OS X,
who's internally using it in
terms of layers of the stack and
how Appearance Manager gets done,
what it needs to get done.
A little bit on the high-level
object I mentioned earlier,
the MLTE,
just kind of the whole infrastructure
top to bottom for text on OS X.
In the red there,
we've got the OpenGL sessions.
The first session is one called
OpenGL High Performance 2D,
and that talks about some things
like the QuickTime movie view
or the slideshow application.
Jeff Stahl has some examples of
how to actually dice up big images
to put them on texture maps and
move them around and rotate them.
So if you're interested in
doing some 2D graphics where
you've got a lot of pixels,
you want a lot of interactivity,
and you want to use OpenGL for that,
that's a really interesting talk.
Later that afternoon,
there's OpenGL Geometry and Modeling,
which is, again,
more the traditional 3D uses of OpenGL,
an interesting session.
A bunch of QuickTime tracks going on as
well in parallel Wednesday afternoon.
Thursday, first thing,
we've got OpenGL Optimization,
which is going to be really
kind of an expert session.
If you're familiar with OpenGL and
you really want to tune the
last little bit out of your app,
go to this session and learn about
all the little tricks and techniques
and how to package your vertex data
so it's optimally passed through
the system and things like that.
And OpenGL Advanced Rendering,
also some advanced techniques
for OpenGL experts.
on Thursday morning.
Font management on OS X.
So rather than text processing,
this talks about fonts and
how they live in the system,
what directories they live in,
how you can enumerate all the fonts,
all the font management
APIs we have on OS X.
So that's a good session to go to.
We've got a printing session at 3:30,
which is a great session to go to
to learn about all the printing
APIs from the Carbon standpoint,
as well as some of the objects
from the Cocoa standpoint.
It talks about the whole architecture
in a fair amount of detail.
There's also a parallel with
that session over in the
Civic Center on Java graphics,
which is pretty interesting if you
want to hear how the Java guys are
doing Java 2D using a combination
of Quartz and some OpenGL.
Actually,
very interesting session there as
well if you're interested in Java.
Feedback forums start
on Thursday afternoon.
We've got the OpenGL feedback forum.
I encourage you,
after you've gone to the sessions,
to bring any feedback to that.
On Friday, we have a session 9 a.m.
in Hall A2 called Graphics
& Imaging Tips & Techniques,
or Tips & Tricks.
This is not the session you go to
learn how to put the dock on the
left-hand side of your screen.
These are actual programming tricks
of how to... There's some debugging,
optimization, demonstration.
There's also some discussion of how
the printing graph port works on OS X.
A bunch of topics that none of which
were big enough for a whole session,
but we kind of put them together into
a kind of bag of tricks here that we
thought people should know about while we
had all of you here for the conference.
Amen.
Then there's the feedback
forum on graphics at 2 p.m.
in J1, so come there and give us feedback
on what we should be doing,
what we can do better.